Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this short lecture we're going to look at the file not found error.
So as you can see here I've renamed this file file not found and I've entered in some simple text file
name.
Tony got the XTi to make sure whatever file name here you enter you don't have within your working folder.
And any event today in what we've seen previously with open variable named file name on file object
contents equals file object up read.
So read the contents that are in our file.
OK.
What happens if I try and run this when I get an error.
Thankfully it's an error we wanted.
And as you can see here we have a file not found error.
No such file or directory.
Tony directx T.
So how do we handle this a little bit better because obviously we don't want the program stopping like
this.
If we cannot find a file which is a very common task and probably a very common error.
So let's say try calling.
Now let's indent error width and we have to invent our contents.
So after a read we enter and go back tab back a couple and that are in the line except file not found
error.
Colden message equals sorry the file comma.
Sorry the file and what we can do here is we can actually put in the file names because we have that
as a variable variable.
So plus filename plus quotes again cannot be found.
OK so nice and clean and a nice message elsewhere user then to finish this off.
We have print message perfect.
So let's run this now and see what we get.
Absolutely beautiful.
Sorry to file Tony that he XTi cannot be found.
So a very simple example of how to make our programs a little bit more user friendly and provide some
feedback for users as to what the error is.
Exactly.
So thanks for listening and I see you in the next lecture.